##   Overview of the program

CoughWatchSA is a pilot digital participatory surveillance platform
launched by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) as
of 9 March 2022. This year we have launched a brand new website, as a
second pilot -- leading towards the establishment of the official
digital participatory surveillance program that will integrate with
existing sentinel surveillance for respiratory illness in 2024. This
platform is open to all South African residents who are 18 years and
older. Parents may enrol their children if they chose to. Participants
in this programme are requested to report data on symptoms related to
influenza-like illness and COVID-19. In addition to this, demographic
data, life style factors, underlying medical conditions and vaccination
status for seasonal influenza and COVID-19 are captured. Participants
who reside in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town are eligible to enrol
in the CoughCheck study, where they can request for a home-based test
for influenza, RSV and COVID-19

##   Benefits of participating

In South Africa, 75% of symptomatic influenza-like illnesses are
non-medically attended. Access to primary health care facilities are not
equally distributed nor accessible in all parts of the country. Testing
capacity is limited as is in many Lower-Middle-Income-Countries (LMICs).
All of these may potentially lead to a gross underestimation of the
community burden of respiratory illness. CoughWatchSA allows us to
collect systematically data on non-medically attended cases of
influenza-like illness. This includes vaccination coverage for seasonal
influenza and COVID19 vaccines.

##  Call-to-action to join the program

CoughWatchSA is open to all South African residents in all provinces.
The platform is zero-rated which means participants will not incur any
mobile data expenses. Parents or legal guardians may enrol their
children and report on their behalf. The long-term aim of this program
is an early warning system for outbreaks of influenza-like like illness,
to determine the early onset of the influenza season and assist the
public health community to respond earlier with interventions and
mitigation strategies for outbreaks. Join us and report on a weekly
basis to improve surveillance efforts for respiratory illness in South
Africa.