**Information leaflet and informed consent for Adults: potential
participants for CoughWatchSA**

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa - CoughWatchSA

*Each participant must read this document and sign the attached informed
consent before any further study-related procedure is done*

***This consent will apply to for prospective participants.***

**Institution**: National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD),
South Africa; funded by a grant from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, United States of America and Sanofi Pasteur

*Investigator:* Prof Cheryl Cohen 011 386 6593, daytime and 082 803
8093, afterhours

Hello, my name is Prof Cheryl Cohen. I am the Head of the Centre for
Respiratory Disease and Meningitis (CRDM) at the NICD) in Johannesburg.
I would like to invite you to think about participating in our study. I
would like to thank you for considering participating in this study.

-   Before you agree to take part in this study**,** we would like you
    to read this information sheet about the study.

-   Please make sure you understand what you need to do.

-   You should also make sure you understand the purpose of the study,
    the study procedures, benefits, risks, discomforts, and precautions
    as well as the alternative procedures that are available to you, and
    your right to withdraw from the study at any time.

-   This information leaflet is to help you to decide if you would like
    to participate. You need to understand what is involved before you
    agree to take part in this study.

-   If you have any questions, do not hesitate to contact me.

-   You should not agree to take part unless you are satisfied with all
    the procedures involved.

-   If you decide to take part in this study, you will be asked to
    accept the terms and condition by checking the accept checkbox at
    the end.

Background/Purpose

Surveillance (looking out for diseases) allows us to obtain laboratory
confirmation of cases of respiratory illness (like influenza (flu)) from
patients consulting primary health care facilities. This data is useful
for quantifying the burden and severity of respiratory illness in South
Africa. We also use this information to document the timing of the flu
season and what other respiratory pathogens are circulating (like
COVID19). However, many people do not consult a clinic or general
practitioner for their flu like symptoms. Because of this we may
underestimate the number of cases of flu and other respiratory illness
each year. . We are introducing a new and innovative way to collect
information on flu like symptoms from people in the community. In this
study we want to collect information on symptoms related to respiratory
illness, including demographic data (age, gender, area you live in),
symptoms (cough, fever, runny nose, chest pains fatigue and the like),
underlying medical conditions (like high blood pressure, diabetes), and
vaccines you may have had (influenza and COVID19). After you have agreed
we will ask you to complete a simple questionnaire at baseline and then
every week for the 6 months of the flu seasons.

Length of study and number of participants

-   The study is only being performed in South Africa only.

-   The surveillance will run over three winter influenza seasons
    > between April -- October over the following years: 2023, 2024 and
    > 2025.

-   The study may be extended if there is a new respiratory virus
    > outbreak

-   At least 1000 participants will be enrolled in the study

-   If you live in South Africa and are at least 18 years old, you are
    > eligible for enrolment. You will also have the opportunity to
    > enrol your children in the study

Study procedures:

-   If you agree to take part in this study, you will first be asked
    questions about your age, gender, occupation, underlying medical
    conditions, whether you smoke or drink, , influenza and COVID19
    vaccination status

-   Only a weekly basis, once you have agreed to participate in the
    study we will send you a symptoms questionnaire where we will ask
    you to provide us with information on whether you have experienced
    any symptoms related to respiratory illness, like cough, headache
    etc.

-   If you have experienced any symptoms, we will ask you questions
    about when the symptoms first appeared, what kind of medical or
    alternative help did you seek, whether you had a test for influenza
    or COVID19 and the result if you did.

-   We will ask you to register on the web application if you agree to
    participate in this study using your email address. We would like to
    use your email address to send you a weekly reminder to complete the
    symptoms questionnaire.

-   The questionnaire will not take approximately 10 minutes of your
    time to complete.

**Your rights as a participant**

Your participation in this study is entirely voluntary and you can
decline to participate, or stop at any time, without stating any reason.

**Expected duration of participation**

We will request that you participate in the study for the duration of
the study period i.e. April -- October in 2023 and the same period in
subsequent years. The total amount of time requested for your
participation in this study is approximately of 10 minutes a week for
completing the short questionnaire.

Risks of this study

In this study, we are collecting your email address which may
potentially identify you. This email address will be stored in an
access-controlled database, where only the database administrators will
have access to it. The email address will be stored in a separate table
and separated from the study data. Our collaborators are a team of
researchers at the Institute for Scientific Interchange in Italy. Your
email address will not be shared with collaborators and confidentiality
will be maintained by separating your email address from the data you
provide in the program.

Benefits of this study

There is no direct benefit to you for participating in the study.
However, your participation in this study may contribute to information
about flu and other respiratory infection in your community. This may
allow us to potentially respond earlier to increases in suspected cases.

**Confidentiality**

We will keep your information confidential by doing the following: All
information obtained during the course of this study, including personal
data and research data will be managed and stored confidentially. Your
email address will be stored as a masked-input in a separate table from
the analysis data. Your data will be stored and linked to a unique
studyid, separate from the email address. The database is a password
protected database with only the study team having access to the data.
Data that may be reported in scientific journals will not include any
information that identifies you as a participant in this study. Your
data will be collected, processed and stored according to the South
African Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act of 2013.

**Withdrawal from the study**

Your participation in this study is entirely voluntary and you can
decline to participate, or stop at any time, without stating any reason.
Your withdrawal will not affect your access to other medical care.

Reimbursement for Participation

You will not be paid to participate in this study however we have set up
the questionnaire as datafree, meaning it will not cost you datatime. .

Ethical approval

-   This study protocol has been submitted to the University of the
    Witwatersrand, **Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC)** and
    written approval has been granted by that committee.

-   This study is sponsored by Sanofi Pasteur and Centre for Diseases
    Control and Prevention (CDC) Atlanta.

-   I do not have any financial or personal interests with this
    organisation that may bias my actions

-   If you want any information regarding your **rights as a
    surveillance participant, or complaints regarding this surveillance
    programme**, you may contact Prof. Clement Penny, Chairperson of the
    University of the Witwatersrand, Human Research Ethics Committee
    (HREC), which is an independent committee established to help
    protect the rights of research participants at (011) 717 2301.

-   For **surveillance information** you can contact Prof Cheryl Cohen,
    National Institute for Communicable Diseases at +2711 386 6593 and
    +27 82 803 8093

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa -- CoughWatchSA

-   I hereby confirm that I have read and understood the terms and
    conditions for my participation in the CoughWatchSA study -- Digital
    Participatory Surveillance (DPS) for Respiratory Illness for South
    Africa

-   I am aware that the results of the study, including confidential
    > information will be anonymously processed into a study report.

-   In view of the requirements of research, I agree that the data
    > collected during this study can be processed by NICD or research
    > partners.

-   I may, at any stage, without prejudice, withdraw my consent to
    > participate in the program.

-   I have had sufficient opportunity to ask questions through provided
    > support email and communications channels from NICD, and (of my
    > own free will) declare I am prepared to participate in the study

-   I am aware that I will not be paying for my own mobile data to
    > access the online survey

-   By clicking Accept, I agree to:

    -   Fill in the intake questionnaire which includes basic demographic
        information, lifestyle related questions and medical related
        questions like vaccine history and comorbidities.

    -   Complete and submit a weekly follow-up symptoms questionnaire that
        will include symptoms related to acute respiratory tract infections
        (ARI).

-   I accept the terms above and provide consent to participate in the
    CoughWatchSA application
