**Assent leaflet for children aged 7-11 years who may be potential
participants for CoughWatchSA**

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa - CoughWatchSA

*Please note that parental consent must be provided for children between
7-17 years in order to participate*

**Institution**: National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD),
South Africa; funded by a grant from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, United States of America and Sanofi Pasteur

*Investigator:* Prof Cheryl Cohen 011 386 6593, daytime and 082 803
8093, afterhours

Hello, my name is Professor Cheryl Cohen. I work for the Centre for
Respiratory Disease and Meningitis. I want to tell you about a study
called CoughWatchSA. I also want you to know what this study is about. I
will ask your parent if you can be part of the study. But you can also
choose to be part of the study.

Why are we doing this study?

Many people get colds and flu. When you have a cold or flu you may have
a sore throat, headache or are feeling hot. Colds and flu are caused by
germs. One of the germs that may make people sick is called influenza
(flu). We want to know how many people get flu. We are also interested
in what germs are causing colds and flu.

Some people stay at home when they are sick and don't see a doctor. We
are interested in these people and what germs they may have.

. We would like you to help us with this by telling us when you feel
sick with flu symptoms.

Length of study and number of participants

The study is only being done in South Africa. The study will happen
every winter. That is April -- October every year from 2023 to 2025.

Study procedures:

-   

-   Your parent will tell us about your age, if you are a boy or girl.

-   Your parent will tell us about any sickness you might have. Your
    parent will tell us about the grade you are in.

-   Your parent will tell us if you have received a vaccine for
    influenza and COVID19.

-   Every week your parent will tell us if you have any symptoms that
    are making you feel sick.

-   You can help by telling your parent how you feeling so they can fill
    in the form correctly.

-   They will tell us when the symptoms started.

-   They will also tell us if you have been tested for flu or COVID19.

-   Your parent will also tell us if you visited a doctor or nurse or
    went to hospital.

-   We will ask your parent to register on the internet if you want to
    be in this study. They will use their email and add you under their
    name.

-   .

**Your rights as a participant**

You do not have to take part in this study. If you change your mind at
any time, you can leave the study. If you change your mind you can let
your parents know. They will know whow to tell us.

**Expected duration of participation**

We would like you to take part in the study for 6 months of each year.
It will take about 5 minutes a week.

Risks of this study

We will keep your information safe. We will only use a number to link to
your symptoms.

Benefits of this study

There is no benefit to you to be in the study. But, being in the study
may help us to know how many more people are sick in the community. We
use this information to help us work on ways to prevent people getting
sick.

**Confidentiality**

Everything you tell us in the study will be kept safe. We will not use
your name when we look at the information.

**Withdrawal from the study**

You can stop taking part in the study at anytime, just tell you parts to
let us know.

Reimbursement for Participation

You will not be paid to be in this study.

Ethical approval

-   Every time we do research we need ask some experts to read our stud.

-   

-   This committee is called an ethics committee.

-   We have sent this protocol to the University of the Witwatersrand,
    and they gave us approval for the study.

-   If you want to ask anything about your rights as a volunteer or if
    you have anything you are not happy about, you can ask your parent
    to call Professor Clement Penny. He is the Chairperson of the
    University of the Witwatersrand, Human Research Ethics Committee
    (HREC). This is the ethics committee I told you about that will help
    to protect your rights in this study. His number is (011) 717 2301.

-   For more information about this study, you can also ask your parent
    to call Professor Cheryl Cohen at the National Institute for
    Communicable Diseases. Her number is +27 11 386 6593 and +27 82 803
    8093

**Assent for study participation, participant aged 7-11 years**

I agree that I know what the study is about and what I need to do.

-   I understand that each week I will help my parent answer questions
    about cold or flu symptoms.

-   I can say no to joining the study.

-   I can change my mind at anytime

-   I have had enough chance to ask questions and confirm that I would
    like to take part in the study

    -   By ticking this box you agree that you will participate and that
        your parent has given consent for you to be involved in the study
