**Information leaflet and informed consent for parent or legal guardian
(for children\<18 years) who may be potential participants in the
CoughWatchSA study**

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa - CoughWatchSA

*Each parent must read this document and sign the attached informed
consent for each of their children before any further study-related
procedure is done*

***This consent will apply to for prospective participants.***

**Institution**: National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD),
South Africa; funded by a grant from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, United States of America and Sanofi Pasteur

*Investigator:* Prof Cheryl Cohen 011 386 6593, daytime and 082 803
8093, afterhours

Hello, my name is Prof Cheryl Cohen, I am the Head of the Centre for
Respiratory Disease and Meningitis (CRDM) at the NICD) in Johannesburg.
I would like to invite your child to think about participating in the
CoughWatchSA study. I would like to thank you for considering your child
in participating in this study.

-   Before you agree for your child to take part in this study**,** we
    would like you to read this information sheet about the study.

-   Please make sure you understand what will be expected from your
    child.

-   You should also make sure you understand the purpose of the study,
    the study procedures, benefits, risks, discomforts, and precautions
    as well as the alternative procedures that are available to you, and
    your right to withdraw your child from the study at any time.

-   This information leaflet is to help you to decide if you would like
    your child to participate. You need to understand what is involved
    before you agree to allow your child to take part in this study.

-   If you have any questions, do not hesitate to ask me or the study
    staff that are introducing the study to you.

-   You should not agree for your child to take part unless you are
    satisfied with all the procedures involved.

-   If you decide that your child should take part in this study, you
    will be asked to sign this document to confirm that you understand
    the study. You will be given a copy to keep.

Background/Purpose

The usual way to look out for (surveillance) for illness such as
influenza and COVID-19 is to look for these illness in clinics and
hospitals. This data is useful for describing how many people get sick
and how serious these respiratory illnesses are in South Africa. We also
use this information to say when the flu season starts and ends each
year. However, we know there are a lot of people who get colds and flu
who do not attended a clinic or hospital. We are interesting in know how
many people are ill and do not seek care.. So to get some information on
this group of people we are setting up this study. In this study we want
to collect information on symptoms related to respiratory illness,
including demographic data, influenza and COVID19 vaccination status as
well as data of self-reported tests for influenza and COVID19, using a
web application. The name of the study is CoughWatchSA.

Length of study and number of participants

-   The study is being performed in South Africa only.

-   The surveillance will run over the winter influenza season between
    > April -- October over the following years: 2023, 2024 and 2025.

-   The study may be extended if there is a new respiratory virus
    > outbreak

-   At least 1000 participants will be enrolled in the study

Study procedures:

-   If you agree for your child to take part in this study, you will
    first be asked questions about your child's age, gender, education
    level, underlying medical conditions, influenza and COVID19
    vaccination status

-   On a weekly basis we will send you a symptoms questionnaire where we
    will ask you to provide us with information on behalf of your child
    if whether they have experienced any symptoms related to respiratory
    illness, like cough, headache etc.

-   If they have experienced any symptoms, we will ask you questions
    about when did the symptoms first appear, what kind of medical or
    alternative help did you seek for your child, whether they had a
    test for influenza or COVID19.

-   We will ask you to register on the web application if you agree to
    participate in this study using your email address and add your
    child as a participant under your profile. We would like to use your
    email address to send you a weekly reminder to complete the symptoms
    questionnaire for you and your child.

-   The questionnaire will not take more than five minutes of your time
    to complete.

**Your rights as a participant**

Your child's participation in this study is entirely voluntary and you
can withdraw their participation, or stop at any time, without stating
any reason. .

**Expected duration of participation**

We will request that your child participates in the study for the
duration of the study period i.e. April -- October in 2023 and the same
period in subsequent years. The total amount of time requested for your
child's participation in this study will be a maximum of five minutes a
week for completing the short questionnaire.

Risks of this study

In this study, we are collecting your email address as a parent/care
giver, which may potentially identify you. But this does not impact your
child. This email address will be stored in an access-controlled
database, where only the study staff and collaborators will have access
to it. The email address will be stored in a separate table and
separated from the study data..

Benefits of this study

There is no direct benefit to your child for participating in the study.
However, your child's participation may in this study may contribute to
potentially identify clusters of suspected influenza-like illness and
COVID19 cases in your community. This may allow us to potentially
respond earlier to increases in suspected cases as reported by
participants in the platform.

**Confidentiality**

We will keep your information confidential by doing the following: All
information obtained during the course of this study, including personal
data and research data will be managed and stored confidentially. Your
email address, required to register on behalf of your children, will be
stored as a masked-input in a separate table from the analysis data.
Your children's data will be stored and linked to a unique studyid,
separate from your email address. The database is a password protected
database with only the study team having access to the data. Data that
may be reported in scientific journals will not include any information
that identifies you or your children as a participant in this study.
Your children's data will be collected, processed and stored according
to the South African Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act of
2013)

**Withdrawal from the study**

Your child's participation in this study is entirely voluntary and you
can withdraw their participation or stop at any time, without stating
any reason

Reimbursement for Participation

Your child will not be paid to participate in this study and you will
not incur any expenses for your participation in the study

Ethical approval

-   This study protocol has been submitted to the University of the
    Witwatersrand, **Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC)** and
    written approval has been granted by that committee.

-   This study is sponsored by Sanofi Pasteur and Center for Diseases
    Control and Prevention (CDC) Atlanta.

-   I do not have any financial or personal interests with this
    organisation that may bias my actions

-   If you want any information regarding your **rights as a
    surveillance participant, or complaints regarding this surveillance
    programme**, you may contact Prof. Clement Penny, Chairperson of the
    University of the Witwatersrand, Human Research Ethics Committee
    (HREC), which is an independent committee established to help
    protect the rights of research participants at (011) 717 2301.

-   For **surveillance information** you can contact Prof Cheryl Cohen,
    National Institute for Communicable Diseases at +2711 386 6593 and
    +27 82 803 8093

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa - CoughWatchSA

## INFORMED CONSENT:

-   I hereby confirm that I have read and understood the terms and
    conditions for my child participating in the CoughWatchSA study --
    Digital Participatory Surveillance (DPS) for Respiratory Illness for
    South Africa

-   I am aware that the results of the study, including confidential
    > information will be anonymously processed into a study report.

-   In view of the requirements of research, I agree that the data
    > collected during this study can be processed by NICD or research
    > partners.

-   I may, at any stage, without prejudice, withdraw my consent for my
    > child to participate in the program.

-   I have had sufficient opportunity to ask questions through provided
    > support email and communications channels from NICD, and (of my
    > own free will) declare my child prepared to participate in the
    > program.

-   I am aware that I will not be using my own mobile data to access the
    > online survey

-   By clicking Accept, I agree to:

    -   Fill in the intake questionnaire on behalf of my child which
        includes basic demographic information, lifestyle related questions
        and medical related questions like vaccine history and
        comorbidities.

    -   Complete and submit a weekly follow-up symptoms questionnaire on
        behalf of my child that will include symptoms related to acute
        respiratory tract infections (ARI).

-   I accept the terms above and provide consent for my child to
    participate in the CoughWatchSA application
