**Assent leaflet for children aged 12-17 years who may be potential
participants for CoughWatchSA**

**STUDY TITLE:** Digital Participatory Surveillance for Respiratory
Illness in South Africa - CoughWatchSA

*Please note that parental consent must be provided for children between
7-17 years in order to participate*

**Institution**: National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD),
South Africa; funded by a grant from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, United States of America and Sanofi Pasteur

*Investigator:* Prof Cheryl Cohen 011 386 6593, daytime and 082 803
8093, afterhours

Hello, my name is Professor Cheryl Cohen. I am the Head of the Centre
for Respiratory Disease and Meningitis. I would like to tell you about a
study called CoughWatchSA study. I want you to understand what this
study is about. Then you can choose if you would like to be involved.

Why are we doing this study?

Many people get colds and flu. When you have a cold or flu you may have
a sore throat, headache or are feeling hot (have a fever). Colds and flu
are caused by germs. One of the germs that may make people sick is
called influenza (flu). We want to know how many people get flu. We are
also interested in other germs are causing colds and flu. Mostly we do
this kind of work at clinics and in hospitals. Some people stay at home
when they are sick and don't see a doctor. We are interested in these
people. We would like you to help us with this by telling by answering
some question once a week. We have a web based login system that will
ask some questions about flu symptoms. You can either complete this
yourself, or ask your parent to help you.

This information helps us to see when flu seasons are starting and to
think about ways to prevent flu.

Length of study and number of participants

The study is only being done in South Africa. The study will run over
the winter season between April -- October in 2023, 2024 and 2025. We
hope to find about 1000 volunteers to help us with the study

Study procedures:

-   If you would like to be involved in this study, your parent will
    answer a list of questions on your behalf. Or you can complete the
    form with your parent present.

-   The questions will ask about your age, gender, any sickness you
    might have, what grade you are in, and if you have receive a vaccine
    for flu or COVID19.

-   You will need to tell us about your symptoms every week, a set of
    question will help you to do this.

-   Your parent will also tell us if you visited a doctor or nurse or
    went to hospital.

-   We will ask your parent to register on the web application if you
    want to participate in this study. They will use their email address
    and add you under their profile. We would like to use the email
    address to remind your parent to complete the symptoms
    questionnaire.

-   The questionnaire will not take more than five minutes of their time
    to complete.

**Your rights as a participant**

If you want to be part of the study you can ask your parent if they
agree. If you do not want to be part of the study you have the right to
say no. No one can force you to be involved in the study. If you want to
stop being involved you can ask your parent to remove you or you can
contact me directly to let me know

**Expected duration of participation**

We will ask that you participate in the study for the duration of the
study period i.e. April -- October in 2023 and again period in 2024 and
2025. The total time it takes to complete the questionnaire is five
minutes at most per week.

Risks of this study

In this study, are not collecting full names, surnames, ID numbers. We
are only collecting your parent\'s email address which may sometimes
tell us who are they are. You will not be affected by this. This email
address will be stored safely and separately in what we call a database
where information is stored. This information will only be seen by our
study team and partners. Our partners are a team of researchers at the
Institute for Scientific Interchange in Italy. The email address will
not be shared and we will make sure that we keep it a secret.

Benefits of this study

There is no straight benefit to you for being involved in the study.
But, being in the study may help us to know how many more people are
sick in the community. This may allow us to respond earlier and for us
to guess how many more people may be sick

**Confidentiality**

All the information that we get from you will be protected and kept safe
during the study. Your information may be shared in an article for
scientists to use. We will make sure that no one can know that it is
your information that is being shared. We will follow the rules of the
law to make sure that your information is handled carefully. This law is
called the protection of personal information act. We also have a group
of people who have a lot of knowledge about your rights and how we
should protect you. This is called an ethics committee and they need to
approve this study before we can invite you. We have received their
approval and want to you know that your information and rights will be
protected.

**Withdrawal from the study**

When you are involved in this study you can ask your parent to remove
you at any time if you want to. No one will force you to stay and you
will not be punished. You can also let me know by calling me directly on
my cell phone number.

Reimbursement for Participation

You will not be paid to be involved in this study. You will not have to
pay to use your airtime to be involved in this study.

Ethical approval

-   Every time we do research we need to write a document called a
    protocol. A protocol tells us everything that will be done in the
    research study. This protocol is sent to people who know what is the
    right thing to do in research. The committee will also tell us if
    there is anything that is wrong with the study. This committee is
    called an ethics committee.

-   We have sent this protocol to the Wits Health Research Ethics
    committee and they gave us permission to do the study.

-   This study is supported by two companies called Sanofi Pasteur and
    Center for Diseases Control and Prevention (CDC) Atlanta. They have
    given us money to do this study.

-   I do not have any involvement with the two companies. I do not have
    any benefit from these companies. They are only supporting the study
    to make sure it runs well.

-   If you want to ask anything about your rights as a volunteer or if
    you have anything you are not happy about, you can ask your parent
    to contact Professor Clement Penny. He is the Chairperson of the
    University of the Witwatersrand, Human Research Ethics Committee
    (HREC). This is the ethics committee I told you about that will help
    to protect your rights in this study. His number is (011) 717 2301.

-   For more information about this study, you can also ask your parent
    to call Professor Cheryl Cohen at the National Institute for
    Communicable Diseases. Her number is +2711 386 6593 and +27 82 803
    8093

**Assent for study participation, participant aged 12-17 years**

I agree that I have been given all the information I need about how the
study and the benefits and risks of this involved. I have also received,
read and understood the assent form for children about this
surveillance.

-   I understand what I need to do to be part of this surveillance

-   I can say no to joining the surveillance or say no at any time while
    I am in the surveillance.

-   I have had enough chance to ask questions and (of my own free will)
    confirm that I will participate in the surveillance.

    -   By ticking this box you agree that you will participate and that
        your parent has given consent for you to be involved in the study